Q: Does your institution accept at-home GRE exam scores?
A: The program does not require a GRE or GMAT test. If you have already taken either of these exams and wish to include the scores in your application, you have the choice to upload them. Nevertheless, an English Language exam score (TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 115, or PTE - 61) is mandatory for international applicants. I recommend considering Duolingo as an option; it's more cost-effective and can be taken conveniently from the comfort of your home computer anytime.
If you received a Bachelor's or Master's degree or completed at least one year of full-time study in the US or one of the exempted countries, you do not need to submit a TOEFL or IELTS exam. (https://www.usfca.edu/arts-sciences/graduate-admission/test-scores)
Q: Given that my GRE is scheduled for February 25th, and official scores take 10-14 days, can I submit my application before receiving the official analytical writing score, using unofficial scores for the other sections?
A: The program does not require a GRE or GMAT test. If you have already taken either of these exams and wish to include the scores in your application, you have the choice to upload them. Nevertheless, an English Language exam score (TOEFL - 90, IELTS - 6.5, Duolingo - 115, or PTE - 61) is mandatory for international applicants. I recommend considering Duolingo as an option; it's more cost-effective and can be taken conveniently from the comfort of your home computer anytime.
If you received a Bachelor's or Master's degree or completed at least one year of full-time study in the US or one of the exempted countries, you do not need to submit a TOEFL or IELTS exam. (https://www.usfca.edu/arts-sciences/graduate-admission/test-scores)
Q: I plan to fund my studies through a combination of my father’s support and a student loan. However, the required documents, such as bank statements and loan approval, will be processed based on the scholarship I receive. Given this situation, is it possible to submit the financial documents after admission, or is it mandatory to provide them now?
A: Yes we can move your application forward for review without the complete Certificate of Finance if you are planning to apply for a loan and require the admission letter for your loan application.
Please upload any financial documents that you have into the Certificate of Finance section of the application, as well as a statement explaining that you intend to apply for a student loan but require the admission letter for your loan application.
When our Graduate Admission Office process your application we will then move it forward for review even if the COF is outstanding.
Please note that, if you are admitted, without a complete certificate of finance that meets or exceeds the Data Science requirement we will not be able to request your I-20. Receiving the I-20 is required to schedule a student visa appointment.
Q: What kind of research is being conducted by your faculty, particularly in fields like AI and data science?
A:Our faculty members are engaged in a wide range of research, including AI ethics, data analytics, and machine learning. We encourage you to explore our Faculty page for more details on specific faculty interests. (https://www.usfca.edu/arts-sciences/programs/graduate/data-science/faculty)
Q:  I'd like to inquire about scholarships for the data science masters program. If they are available and if so how one can apply. I'd also like to get more information on International Students.
A: All admitted candidates will be considered for program scholarships, which will be detailed in the admission letter. No separate application is required. However, please note that our scholarships cover a maximum of 20% of tuition, so students will need to secure additional funding sources for the program.
Q:  Am I eligible for scholarship support based on my academic and professional accomplishments?
A: For scholarships, all admitted students are automatically considered for program scholarships, which will be detailed in the admission letter. No separate application is required. Please note that scholarships cover a maximum of 20% of tuition, so students must secure additional funding to support their studies.
Q: Is it compulsory to pass an interview to move forward in the application process?
A: Yes, all applicants must complete an online technical interview with a faculty member from the admissions committee.
Q: If an interview is required, do you have any tips on how to best prepare?
A: The interview will cover key prerequisite subjects, including linear algebra, statistics, and programming. It is also an opportunity to ask questions about the program.
Q: I am interested in the MS Data Science program for the Fall 2025 cohort. When is the application deadline for the program if one wants to begin in Fall'2025?
A: Thank you for your interest in our program. The Master of Science in Data Science (MSDS) is a full-time, one-year program. The 35-unit program starts in early July each year, and it's important to note that admissions are only available in the summer.
Q: I took statistics in undergraduate however, I don’t have any programming skills, can I still apply for the MSDS program? 
A: You must have completed all required prerequisite courses before the start of the program. This is an accelerated master's program and there is no time to take extra courses. You may apply with courses in progress provided that they will be completed by the time the program begins.